[Music]
okay Rocket Man ten facts about our
planet you didn't learn in school we
seem to think we know pretty much all
there is to know about our familiar home
planet that nothing can surprise us at
this point but are you willing to bet
money on that you might know that it's
called the blue planet but did you know
that scientists say Earth was originally
a different color or that the moon isn't
Earth's only satellite intrigued
yeah good then let's get to know our
home planet a little better with these
ten little-known earthly facts counting
down from number 10 the moon is probably
a chunk of the earth before our planet
had its cosmic companion scientists
believed that the early Earth was all
alone in its path around the Sun then
about four billion years ago when the
earth was still just a baby
a gigantic space rock the size of Mars
and with a lovely named Theia
collided with our planet as a result a
huge chunk of the earth broke away and
later became our satellite the moon and
our planet never felt lonely again Oh a
happy ending number nine the Earth's
magnetic field is changing earth has a
strong magnetic field thanks to two
important factors its nickel iron core
and a pretty fast axial rotation the
magnetic field is vital for Earth
because it protects the planet from the
impact of solar winds we think of our
planet's magnetic field as something
constant and stable but the truth is
that is changing researchers say that
since the 19th century the northern
magnetic pole has shifted about 685
miles
moving northwestward across the Canadian
Arctic the southern magnetic pole is
also constantly roaming scientists have
actually known about the migration of
the poles for a long time James Ross
an explorer and British naval officer
pinpointed the northern magnetic pole
for the first time in 1831 he discovered
it during his exhausting voyage to the
Arctic where his ship got trapped in the
ice forcing the crew to spend a harsh 4
years there maybe that's why nobody went
back to that place until the next
century in 1904 Roald Amundsen a polar
regions Explorer from Norway reached the
North Magnetic Pole again and was
surprised to find that it had shifted 31
miles since Ross's discovery hey you
can't keep a good pull down you know
what I mean you just gotta let him
wander number eight gravity isn't the
same everywhere on the planet Earth
despite common belief isn't perfectly
round it's more like a squash sphere
kind of like how my head is shaped so
it's mass is irregular and differs in
various places which causes wobbles of
gravity in different areas of the planet
one of these gravitational anomalies is
found in Canada's Hudson Bay where the
gravity is much weaker than anywhere
else on the planet a 2007 study found
the reason for such a phenomenon is
melted glaciers that area was once
covered with a thick layer of ice when
that ice later melted the imprint of
this glacier partially pushed aside some
of the Earth's mass in that region is
precisely this slight deformation of the
crust that can explain the 25 to 45
percent weaker gravity they're who they
should open up a spa sounds like a great
place to lose some weight and not have
to work so hard huh
as for the rest perhaps it's somehow
connected with the movement of magma in
the planets mantle at least that's what
researchers have predicted in science
journal number seven Earth had and still
might have one more moon some scientists
believe that our planet used to have an
additional satellite
according to their research a smaller
celestial body about 750 miles wide
orbited the earth just like a second
moon it most likely crashed into our
main satellite later on such a collision
could explain why the two sides of the
moon looks so different from each other
one being heavily cratered in ruff
scientists also don't rule out the
probability that one day earth will get
another satellite even today there are
tons of celestial bodies that follow the
planet they're mostly temporary
companions though but scientists say
that the gravitational field of our
planet occasionally captures even quite
big asteroids that spin around the earth
for several months or about three
rotations after that they move on in
their journey across the expanses of the
cosmos kind of like hitchhikers number
six
there are moon quakes on the moon now
earthquakes or rather moon quakes on the
moon aren't something from science
fiction they actually happen they don't
occur as often as those on earth but
they are much deeper and closer to the
center of our satellite about halfway
between the surface and the core
scientists believe this phenomenon has
something to do with the gravitational
force between the earth and the moon so
we can truthfully say to the moon hey
your quake is not our fault get it fault
all right let's move on number five our
planet is covered in gold really about
20 million tons of gold can be found
inside our very own planet and in the
seas if all this precious metal could be
extracted it would be enough to cover
the entire surface of the planet in a
2-foot layer of gold and if we gave
everyone an equal piece each one of
Earth's inhabitants would get nine
pounds of this treasure but don't rush
out to dig up your backyard just yet the
metal is extremely diluted you can only
get a gram of gold for everyone
hundred million tons of seawater but
can't we at least try please
number four earth used to be purple
now dr. shield is Sarma a microbial
geneticist from the University of
Maryland hypothesizes which is a
ten-dollar scientific word four guesses
that our planet was once purple he
thinks that ancient microbes probably
didn't use chlorophyll but other
molecules to process sunlight these
molecules most likely would have given a
violet hue to the microbes turning the
entire planet purple man prince was born
way too early he would love that number
three the tallest mountain on the planet
isn't what you think now this may seem
shocking but the title of the tallest
mountain in the world might be stolen
from Mount Everest no doubt this
enormous mountain reaches 29,029 feet
above sea level and there's no other
mountain on earth that stands so tall
but there is Mauna Kea a mountain in
Hawaii it stands proud with its peak
just about thirteen thousand eight
hundred two feet above sea level by the
way this makes Hawaii the second tallest
island in the whole world so what are we
getting at you ask that's much shorter
than Mount Everest after all true but
the thing is that the largest part of
this over 1 million year-old mountain is
underwater and if measured from the very
bottom on the ocean floor to the peak
Mauna Kea is 33,000 feet tall making it
technically the tallest mountain on the
planet
Aloha number 2 Earth has exploding lakes
well on the border of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and Rwanda as well
as in Cameroon there are three deadly
explosive lakes Neos Mona and kevo are
crater lakes that are located over
volcanic Earth
this means that magma lurking below the
surface emits carbon dioxide into the
waters of the lake this carbon dioxide
builds up in a thick layer at the bottom
of the lakes until pressure gives way
and it's released in an explosion now it
doesn't happen often but if anyone is
unlucky enough to be passing by at that
moment they'll be asphyxiated with the
gas oh my
so it's really a farting Lake that can
kill you if you get too close hey I have
a brother-in-law kind of like that and
number one earth is home to the most
powerful volcanic eruption ever the most
powerful eruption ever recorded happen
in April 1815 the heart of the explosion
was Mount Tambora in Indonesia this
eruption was ranked a seven or super
colossal on the volcanic explosivity
index this ranking is similar to the
Richter scale for earthquakes and goes
from 1 to 8
the 1815 explosion was so loud that even
people on Sumatra island could hear it
and that's about 1,200 miles away over
71 thousand people died in this
catastrophic disaster and dark clouds of
wet ash covered distant islands scary
so which earthly fact shot you the most
perhaps you know some more information
about our beautiful planet that we
haven't mentioned let us know in the
comments below
share this video with all your friends
who are thirsty for knowledge and if you
had fun watching this video hit the like
button don't forget that big red button
either click it and subscribe to our
channel to stick around with us on the
bright side of life I'd of LA
you